---
layout: post
title: On War（节选一）
category: 读书
tags: On_War
keywords: 
description: 
---

__A great part of the information obtained in war is contradictory, a still greater part is false, and by far the greatest part somewhat doubtful.__ 
...
This difficulty of seeing things correctly, which is one of the greatest sources of friction in war, makes things appear quite different from what was expected. The impression of the senses is stronger than the force of the ideas resulting from deliberate calculation, and this goes so far that probably no scheme of any importance has ever been executed without the commander in the first moments of its execution having had to conquer fresh doubts in his mind. Ordinary men, who follow the suggestions of others, generally, therefore, become undecided on the field of action; they think they have found the circumstances different from what they had expected, all the more so, indeed, since here again they give way to the suggestions of others. But even the man who has made his own plans, when he comes to see things with his own eyes, easily loses faith in his former opinion. Firm reliance upon himself must make him proof against the apparent pressure of the moment; his first conviction will in the end prove true, when the foreground of scenery which fate pushes on to the stage of war with its exaggerated shapes of danger is drawn aside and the horizon extended. This is one of the great gulfs that separate conception from execution. &nbsp;&nbsp;  *(Book One - Information In War)*


The higher we ascend in positions of command, the more will mind, intellect and insight predominate in activity, and the more, therefore, will boldness, which is a property of temperament, be thrust into the background. For that reason we find it so rarely in the higest positions; but it is then all the more worthy of admiration. __Boldness, directed by a predominating intelligence, is the stamp of the hero__: this boldness does not consist in venturing directly against the nature of things, in a downright violation of the laws of probability, but in the forceful support of the higher calculation which genius, with its instinctive judgement, has run through with lightning speed, and but half consciously, when it makes its choice. The more boldness lends wings to the mind and insight, so much the higher these will reach in their flight, and so much the more comprehensive will be the vision, and the more correct the result; but of course only on the assumption that with greater objects greater dangers are associated. The ordinary man, not to speak of the weak and irresolute, arrives at a correct result in so far as such is possible without living experience, while pursuing, at most, an imaginary activity in his study, far away from danger and responsibility. Let danger and responsibility surround him from every direction, and he loses his perspective and if he retains this in any measure by the influence of others, still he would lose his power of making decision, because in that point no one can help him. &nbsp;&nbsp; *(Book Three - Boldness)*

As long as his men are full of good courage and fight with zeal and spirit, the commander seldom has an opportunity of displaying great force of will in the pursuit of his object. But as soon as difficulties arise--and this can never fail to happen when great results are to be achieved--then things no longer move on of themselves like a well-oiled machine, but the machine itself begins to offer resistance, and to overome this, the commander must have great force of will. By this resistance we must not exactly suppose disobendience and contradictions, though these are frequent enough with single individuals; it is the general impression of the dissolution of all physical and moral forces and the heartrending sight of the bloody sacrifice which the commander has to contend with in himself, and then in all others who directly or indirectly transfer to him their impressions, feelings, anxieties, and efforts. As the forces in one individual after another die away and can no longer be excited and maintained by his own will, the whole inertia of the mass gradually rests its weight on the will of the commander. By the spark in his breast, by the light of his spirit, the spark of purpose, the light of hope, must be kindled afresh in all others. Only in so far he is equal to this, does he control the masses and remain their master. When that ceases and his own courage is no longer strong enough to revive the courage of all others, then the masses drag him down to them into the lower region of animal nature with shrinks from danger and knows not shame. These are the burdens under which the military commander has to bear up if he wishes to do great deeds. They increase with the size of the masses under him, and therefore, if the forces in question are to continue equal to the weight upon his shoulders, they must rise in proportion to the height of his rank. &nbsp;&nbsp; *(Book One - The Genius For War)*

